Use the Service Discovery API from an app (#362)
status-im/ift-docs: docs/core/build-modules/build-logos-core-module-that-uses-service-discovery-api.md

- You have a reusable module scaffold with typed `disco*` wrappers that you can extend for production service types.

## Step 1: Smoke-test the bundled example binary (Optional)

Build and run the self-contained two-node demo to confirm the module and its C bindings are working before writing your own module.

1. Clone the repository and enter the project directory:

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/logos-co/logos-libp2p-module
   cd logos-libp2p-module
   ```

1. Build the module:

   ```sh
   nix build -L
   ```

   {% hint style="info" %}
   The first-run Nix build can take 5–20 minutes to fetch dependencies; subsequent builds are cached. Estimated total time is 15–25 minutes.
   {% endhint %}
   
1. Vendor the C-binding header and shared library that `logos_module()` expects in `./lib`:

   ```sh
   CBIND=$(find /nix/store -maxdepth 4 -name libp2p.h -path '*cbind*' | head -1 | xargs dirname)
   mkdir -p lib
   cp "$CBIND/libp2p.h" lib/
   find /nix/store -name libp2p.so -path '*cbind*' -exec cp {} lib/ \;
   ```

1. Build the example target from the root project and run it:

   ```sh

>    nix develop --command bash -c 'cmake -B build -S . && cmake --build build --target example_service_discovery -j'

Reviewer: Following this exactly, `cmake` fails at configure:

```
CMake Error: Could NOT find Boost (missing: Boost_INCLUDE_DIR system)
  ...logos-protocolConfig.cmake:41 (find_dependency)
```

The example links `logos-protocol`, whose CMake config does `find_dependency(Boost)`, but the flake `devShell` doesn't put Boost on `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` (Boost *is* in the store — it's pulled in to build the module — just not exposed to the dev shell). Adding it makes the build + run succeed:

```sh
   nix develop --command bash -c 'export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="$(nix build --no-link --print-out-paths nixpkgs#boost.dev):$CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH"; cmake -B build -S . && cmake --build build --target example_service_discovery -j'
```

The cleaner fix is to add `boost` to the `devShell` in `logos-libp2p-module`'s `flake.nix`, after which the original one-liner works. Either way the doc shouldn't ship a Step 1.4 that fails out of the box.

Author: @jm-clius Can you take a look at this issue please?

Reviewer 2: I've added a fix [here](https://github.com/logos-co/logos-libp2p-module/pull/69). @gmelodie do you mind taking a look and also double-checking that the instructions in the doc packet for building and running the example now make sense?

Reviewer 3: Merged!

   ./build/examples/example_service_discovery
   ```

> 
>    Expected output:
> 
>    ```
>    Starting nodes...
>    Node A: starting advertising demo-service
>    Node B: registering interest in demo-service
>    Node B: looking up demo-service
>    Node B found 0 peer(s) advertising demo-service
>    Node A: random lookup
>    Random lookup returned 0 peer(s)
>    Node B: unregistering interest in demo-service
>    Node A: stopping advertising demo-service
>    Done

Reviewer: This expected output is stale — it doesn't match the current `examples/service_discovery.cpp`. I captured the real program output by running the built binary (commit `3c2a1fd`): the demo now runs a bootstrap + advertiser + discoverer, uses `Advertiser:`/`Discoverer:` prefixes (not `Node A`/`Node B`), **finds 1 peer (not 0)**, and prints `matched the advertiser` plus a signed Extended Peer Record. Suggested replacement (peer IDs / counts / XPR size vary per run; the binary also interleaves verbose `DBG` libp2p logs):

```suggestion
   Starting nodes...
   Advertiser: advertising demo-service
   Discoverer: registering interest in demo-service
   Discoverer: looking up demo-service
   Discoverer found 1 peer(s) advertising demo-service
     peer: 16Uiu2HAk... seq: 1359 addrs: 1
   Discoverer matched the advertiser: 16Uiu2HAk...
   Advertiser: random lookup
   Random lookup returned 2 peer(s)
   Advertiser: building a signed Extended Peer Record
   Signed XPR is 288 bytes
   Discoverer: unregistering interest in demo-service
   Advertiser: stopping advertising demo-service
   Done
```

   ```

   - Peer IDs are non-deterministic across runs.

>    {% hint style="info" %}
>    "found 0 peer(s)" is expected for a two-node local run with no DHT bootstrap peers configured.
>    {% endhint %}

Reviewer: This hint is incorrect for the current example — it *does* configure a bootstrap node (`connectPeer`) and the discoverer finds the advertiser via the DHT, so a successful run prints `found 1 peer(s)` and `matched the advertiser`, not `found 0`.

```suggestion
   {% hint style="info" %}
   The demo runs a bootstrap node plus an advertiser and a discoverer, so the discoverer finds the advertiser through the DHT — a successful run prints `found 1 peer(s)` and `matched the advertiser`. Exact peer counts, IDs, and the XPR byte size vary per run.
   {% endhint %}
```
